“Yandex” Browser Software License Agreement
This document is a translation of the License agreement to use the Yandex browser software in English. In case of conflict between the Russian version of the License agreement to use the Yandex browser software and this translation - only the Russian version of the License agreement to use the Yandex browser software is legally binding. The Russian version of the License agreement to use the Yandex browser software can be found here: https://yandex.ru/legal/browser_agreement/?lang=ru.

Please, read the terms of this license agreement carefully prior to using this software. By using this software you completely and unconditionally accept the terms of this License Agreement.

If you do not agree with the terms of this license agreement, do not use the software for whatever purposes.

1. General provisions
1.1. This License Agreement («License») sets forth the conditions of use for the “Yandex” Browser Software, versions for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS, and Yandex Browser Lite, version for Android (any of them will hereinafter be referred to as “Software”) and is concluded between any person using the Software («User»), and YANDEX LLC, 16 Lva Tolstogo St., Moscow, 119021, Russian Federation, which is the owner of the exclusive rights in the Software («Rightholder»).

1.2. By copying and installing the Software on his/her personal device the User expresses his/her complete and express acceptance of these terms.

1.3. The Software may be used under the terms of this License only. If the User fails to accept the terms of this License in full, the User shall not be entitled to use this Software for whatever purposes. Any use of the Software in violation (contravention) of any terms of this License shall not be allowed.

1.4. Use of the Software hereunder for personal non-commercial purposes is free of charge. For the avoidance of doubts, the use of the Software in accordance with the terms and conditions of this License by the Users being legal entities, either commercial or non-commercial, is not deemed as the use for commercial purposes. Use of the Software in accordance with the terms and by means not described in this License shall be allowed only subject to a separate agreement with the Rightholder.

1.5. This License and all relations connected with the use of the Software shall be subject to applicable law of the Russian Federation and any claims or lawsuits arising out of this License or the use of the Software shall be filed with and considered by the court at the location of the Rightholder.

1.6. The Rightholder can provide the User with translation of this License from the Russian language into different foreign languages, however in case of any conflict between the terms and conditions of the License in the Russian language and its translation, only the Russian version of the License shall be valid.

2. Rights to the Software
2.1. The Rightholder owns all exclusive rights in the Software.

3. License
3.1. The Rightholder, on the basis of a simple (non-exclusive) license, shall grant the User a free, worldwide, non-transferable right to use the Software as set forth below:

3.1.1. To use the Software in accordance with its functionality by copying and installing it on the User's personal device(s). The User shall be entitled to install the Software on any number of personal devices.

3.1.2. To reproduce and to distribute this Software in an unmodified form and solely for non-commercial purposes (free of charge).

4. Limitations
4.1. Except for use within the scope and by means directly stipulated for by this License or the law of the Russian Federation, the User shall not modify, decompile, disassemble, decrypt and perform other actions with the object code of the Software, aimed at obtaining source codes of the Software and/or information on the implementation of the algorithms used in the Software, to create derivative works with the use of the Software, as well as to fulfill (to allow to conduct) other use of the Software, without the written consent from the Rightholder. The User may make a modification of the Software solely for his or hers own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications. The User shall not be entitled to distribute, communicate, make the Software available for the general public or otherwise use such modifications, except as for his or hers own use.

4.2. The User shall not, without the written consent from the Rightholder, reproduce, distribute and make available to the public, the Software in any form and by any means, not directly stipulated for by this License, including within the collections of software products, with the offering of other programs, settings and other products, regardless of purposes of such use.

4.3. The Software shall be used under the name of “Yandex” Browser. The User may not change the name of the Software, modify and/or remove documentation or other materials present in the Software and distributed with the Software, copyright notices or other indications of the Rightholder or other persons.

5. Other terms and notices
5.1. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that when the automatic statistics sending feature of the Software is enabled, the Rightholder automatically receives anonymous (without reference to the User) information about the website visited, pages viewed and files downloaded, depersonalized voice records if voice activation is on, as well as information on the hardware of the User’s device, on the operating system of the User’s device, on the software installed on the User’s device, on the working (running) software on the User’s device, on possible threat sources or suspicious software in the operating system, the list of favorite folders in the file system of the User’s Device, and the results of local search (if such feature is used), for the purposes of providing respective features of the Software, improving the quality of the products and services provided to the User. The Rightholder has the right to use the said data in its other services and software for any purposes. The User may disable sending of the said data by disabling the automatic statistics sending feature in the Software settings.

5.2. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that when the function "Translate words" and/or the function of automated translation of texts and web pages "Translation of pages" are enabled, logs of translations will be anonymously (without reference to the User) transmitted to the Rightholder.

5.3. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that when using the «Positioning» function of the Software, the IP address of the User's device and the data on available Wi-Fi networks are transmitted to the Rightholder's automated positioning system.

5.4. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that if the function “Smart Line” in the Software is enabled to offer the User search suggestions, the Rightholder automatically receives, on an unidentified basis (with no reference to the User), the characters entered in the address bar of the browser, the text of the suggestion selected by the User and the identifier of the system, until the function is disabled.

5.5. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that if the function “Synchronization” in the Software is enabled to save and synchronize the data and settings of the User in different copies of the Program, the Rightholder automatically receives and stores, subject to the User’s option, the information of following categories: settings of the Program, the information on applications and extensions added to the Program, passwords, bookmarks, and the history of visited web-pages. The information of the categories opted for by the User is transmitted until the function is disabled and stored until deleted by the User.

5.6. The User can at any time refuse to transfer the data specified in clauses 5.1 – 5.5 by disabling the corresponding options.

5.7. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that when using the Software the Rightholder automatically receives the following unidentified information (with no reference to the User): the type of the operation system on the User’s device, the Software version and identifier, and other technical information. Versions of the Software for Android and iOS automatically send to the Rightholder the following additional unidentified information (with no reference to the User): geolocation data, information on SIM-card, list of applications installed on the User's device, statistics of usage, installing, and uninstalling applications, as well as other technical information.

5.8. All information on the Software usage, transferred in accordance with this license, shall be stored and processed in accordance with the Privacy Policy (https://yandex.ru/legal/confidential/?lang=en).

5.9. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that when installing the Software, additional components (widgets, add-ons) for the Software integrated with the popular social networks, e-mail services and other tools will be automatically selected and installed with the selection being completely automated and no data transferred beyond the User’s device. The User hereby acknowledges and agrees that when installing the Software, additional software required for the performance of certain features of the Software may be installed onto their device.

5.10. The «Text only» function of the Software is based on the «Readability» software, with the exclusive right held by «Arc90» Company, which distributes the «Readability» software under Apache 2.0 license (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

5.11. Adobe® Flash® Player. Copyright © 1996 - 2016. Adobe Systems Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. Adobe and Flash are either trademarks or registered trademarks in the United States and/or other countries.

5.12. The “Alice” Voice Assistant” feature of the Software enables the User to use voice assistant features for making voice queries by voice input, obtaining short information (quick response) on certain queries and information from Yandex services. Voice assistant responses are made automatically by indexing publicly available information. Voice assistant responses that are not related to making a search query (in a dialogue mode) are made automatically. Therefore, the Rightholder shall not be responsible for accurateness, relevance, correctness of the information received by the User through this feature.

5.13. The Software is based on the open source software Chromium available under the BSD License, the text of which is given in the Exhibit to this License and also at http://src.chromium.org/viewvc/chrome/trunk/src/LICENSE.

5.14. The User is hereby notified and agrees that if the extension “Advisor” is used, the Rightholder will be anonymously (without reference to the User) and automatically receiving the following categories of information: information on the Software’s general working capacity and settings, information about URL-addresses of the web pages visited by the User, information on search queries made by the User in search engines, information on followed links related to advertising, information on the content of the web pages visited by the User provided that such content may be identified by the Software as an offer of goods or services.

5.15. By using the extension “Advisor”, the User accepts the Yandex.Market Terms of Use (https://yandex.ru/legal/market_termsofuse/).

5.16. By using the feature “Zen”, the User accepts the Yandex.Zen Terms of Use (https://yandex.com/legal/zen_termsofuse/).

6. Limitation of liability under the License
6.1. The Software is provided «as is». Neither the Rightholder nor its suppliers make any warranties for error-free and uninterrupted work of the Software, Software fitness for any particular User's purpose and expectations, and make no other warranties of any kind, except as expressly set out herein.

6.2. To the fullest extent allowed by the applicable law, neither the Rightholder nor its suppliers shall be liable for any direct or indirect consequences of any use or inability to use the Software and/or damages caused to the User and/or third parties as a result of any use or inability to use the Software, including as a result of possible Software errors or failures.

6.3. The User may add extensions (components) to the Software, which are developed and offered for installation by third parties and which give access to information or services of third parties, or which enable the User to go to the resources of third parties (hereinafter referred to as the “User components”). The User understands and agrees that the User components shall be installed in the Software at the User’s own risk and discretion. The Rightholder shall not monitor the functionality or content of the services or resources accessed through this User components or their compliance with legislation, and shall bear no liability for the results of installation or use of the User components. The Rightholder shall not compensate the User for any damage whatsoever caused by the use or inability to use any User components or information, services and resources accessed through the User components.

7. Updates/new versions of the Software
7.1. The Software may automatically download and install updates from time to time, which are directed to enhance the Software and which can be in the form of patches, additional modules and new versions of the Software. The User is hereby notified and agrees that the Software will update automatically, including request, download and installation of updates for the Software onto the User’s device without further notice.

7.2. This License shall be applied to all future updates/new versions of the Software. The installation of an update/new version of the respective Program shall be deemed as an acceptance of the terms and conditions of this License by the User for relevant updates/new versions of the Program, unless the update/installation of a new version of the Program is accompanied by any other license agreement.

8. Changes in the terms of this License
8.1. This License Agreement can be modified by the Rightholder unilaterally. The notification of the User on modifications made to this License shall be published at: https://yandex.ru/legal/browser_agreement/. The specified modifications in the terms and conditions of the License Agreement shall come into force upon their publication, unless otherwise set out in the relevant publication.

Exhibit. Terms of use of Chromium
BSD License

Copyright © 2014, The Chromium Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

• Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

• Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

• Neither the name of the Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Date: 15.03.2018